[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Is this the end?
The short answer is no.
Hi.
I'm Randy Veitenheimer.
And today I would
like to discuss
death and transformation.
[THEME MUSIC]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Very few of us remember
our birth or when we die.
Memory, birth, death,
and imagination
are insufficient in life
and fail to provide us
with a foundation for living.
What is death?
In simple terms, it is the
absence of the physical self.
In physics, energy cannot
be created or destroyed.
It can only be transformed.
Life can neither be
created nor destroyed.
Just like energy, it
can only be transformed.
Death in physics
terms is the loss
of the physical
form of existence,
just as birth is the creation of
the physical form of existence.
But what does the loss of
the physical form mean?
We have to start at the
beginning of it all.
Your pre-existences
are a form of life
without form, zero reality.
You exist as some consciousness,
some aspect of the universe.
Your physical
existence is a form
of the formless in Chinese
philosophy and Taoism.
Your death is the loss
of the physical form
but not the essence of
you, which is life itself,
our being.
Life is an expanding
state of awareness.
Death is an evolving
expression of growth.
Both are marked by emergence--
life into physical
awareness and death
into universal, our
infinite awareness.
Life is an imminent
state of being.
Death is a transcendent
So it is zero reality.
So we go from a transcendent,
non-physical state
of beingness--
basically essence-- to an
eminent and present state
of existence--
physicality.
And then we go back to a
transcendent, non-physical
state of being.
You are always in a state of
being and a state of beginning.
It doesn't change.
From a quantum
physics point of view,
beingness is a high
probability-wave state
of high potential energy.
How we come into
existence is a problem
I've presented to several
physicists in my life.
Can you tell me the totality
of the energy required
to create 8 pounds of matter
in the form of a human being?
It's beyond comprehension.
Our physics can't explain it.
All we know is that the
collapse of the probability
wave-energized state is you.
As a human being, life
comes into existence
in its physical
form even though it
exists before and after
in a transcendent form.
The expansion of the
physical into a non-physical
existence, death, is the
release and the transformation
of physical matter form into
an energy state not of death,
but of life itself.
Because life really hasn't
changed by the absence
of the physical body.
Conversion from
matter to energy,
transformation of the
potential physical matter,
life, into pure
energy, death, knowing
that energy is life itself
becomes a better concept.
Conception is an
energetic event.
Life is an accumulation
of information and matter.
Death is the release
of this matter,
but not the release
of the information.
The death of matter is not
the absence of the self,
but the continuation of the
information and experience
of having lived.
All of life is about living.
All life is therefore sacred.
What about reincarnation?
How does it work?
What's the mechanism of storage?
What is the mechanism of
transfer of that information?
Where is potentiality stored?
All these questions are
not answered in physics.
And yet we have the
term "reincarnation"
that encompasses all that in
basically an unexplained way.
This is my opinion.
Reincarnation is
one of those things
we know that we don't know.
It is a known unknown.
It has no hard
science behind it.
It's an attractive ideal that
you would take whoever you are.
And then you would
come back to whoever
you were and kind
of pick up where
you left off in the last book.
But we don't know if
those memories are yours.
We don't know if you
are pulling those
from the entire
information field,
from the entire energetic
field of the universe.
We do know that you can
pull that information.
And so those people we call
"psychics" or "channelers"--
they're picking up
information flows.
They are contacting that
information as it existed.
One of the nice things
about being alive and dying
is your essence carries
some form of memory.
And that memory is
not exactly your own.
It's memory that is
uploaded to the universe
or to the collective
conscious of humanity.
And so because there's
multiple places of memory,
it is impossible to say you
were reincarnated as whoever.
Even though it is
attractive and we
seem to get some
juice or energy out
of the idea of continuity
and the physical form,
there is no continuity
of the physical form.
There is only continuity
of the energetic form.
Zero reality exists
and has continuity.
Number-one reality
is always transformed
and is always transcended.
We can take a look at a person
as layers of information,
layers of memory.
We can take a look
at them as layers
of density, information density,
layers of information flow.
And also we can look at them
as layers of dimensions.
I think that the
easiest way to explain
the dimensionality
of a human being
is to refer to it as
like our school system.
I went to grade 1 through 12.
I would have 12 dimensions
of understanding,
or knowledge, or experience.
Your dimensionality is
actually set at birth.
But it's not limited.
Why were you born only into,
say, 16 or 18 dimensions,
which would to me include all
people born before about 1980?
That was all that was required.
We don't think about
our life as something
that was needed, something
that coalesced out
of the universe, something
that represents a quantum
collapse into a potentiality,
into existence as something
the universe needed.
So then in keeping
with evolution,
why wouldn't it make sense
that at some point somebody
would be born with
additional dimensions--
additional dimensions of
interaction, information flows,
access, talent, skills?
There are things that
are transcendent.
There are things that are
outside the current morphic
field or the current reality.
And they keep expanding.
In current language, we call it
"expansion of consciousness."
Consciousness is strictly
an interactive process
that we use in conjunction with
the universe or in reality.
So why wouldn't there be a need
for additional or evolutionary
change in the
amount of dimensions
that a human being can access?
It really gives rise to the
potential of enlightenment,
the potential of
transference, transformation.
All of it is contained
in this whole concept
that you are a certain
number of dimensions
that you were born into.
But through processes-- yoga,
martial arts, meditation--
there are ways to
expand your reality.
To me, the question
becomes, what
is going on in the
universe that requires
us to now have children that
have 20 or 23 dimensions?
And is there an end to it?
And ultimately to look
out ahead and say,
what does a human being that
has 30 dimensions look like?
What is their capacity?
Can we explain now
things like intuition?
Can we explain mental telepathy?
Can we explain all
kinds of phenomena
that come out of the
result of the expansion
of our consciousness and the
expansion of our connection
to the entire universe?
The idea of dimensionality
is something
I came up with when I
started calibrating.
How present are you
in this universe?
And then from that
came another idea
that you actually have
memory fields also.
If you combine these two, we
can take a look at something
like Alzheimer's or dementia.
And one of the things we find in
dementia and Alzheimer's is you
start losing the
closest memory field.
But you still have access
to three, four, five, six,
and seven.
One of the things that
happens if you exit life
is that you start
losing dimensionality.
You start losing presence
in this universe.
Sometimes we notice
it, like when I work
on people that are near death.
We start seeing that they're
no longer totally here.
They assume some
form of translucence
that shows that they're
becoming an energy being again.
Anybody who's worked on people
that are dying will know this.
They have seen it.
But look at it as
you've started to lose
your dimensionality
presence in this universe,
that you've gone from
20 as a new child
in this universe or 21.
Now you're down to 15.
Let's say you get really
sick or you become ill.
You start losing
dimensional presence.
Let's say you go down to 10.
At 10, you start not being able
to interact with this world
very effectively.
We call it old age.
So instead of saying, oh, old
age is somewhere 50 years old,
60 years old, 70 years old,
it becomes something of a,
I have lost reality.
And I'm down to 10 dimensions.
And one of the things I've
noticed is as people are dying,
they start going
down to 10 to 9 to 8.
And finally they get down
to five, four, three.
Five, four, three is important.
Almost every
society in the world
has some form of, give yourself
three days before they cremate
you or before they bury you.
And if you look at
the old explanations,
it is very simple.
They wanted to give you time
to get out of your body,
to be completely done with it.
What is also interesting when I
look at people who have already
died is some of them are still
in more than one dimension.
Oh, now we get into the whole
concept of what ghosts are
or entities or non-physical
spiritual beings.
All of this comes
into play but can
be described as the number
and level of dimensions
of that existence.
One of the important
things I've found
is that some people
actually don't
stay in number-one reality.
They actually go to zero.
Their light goes
out of the universe.
It is reabsorbed into
the entire matrix
of the energetic universe.
This is what it means to
get off the wheel of life.
You can experience life, but
you cannot experience death.
This would be the
total end of life.
And it is not possible.
It would be in violation of
the laws of the universe.
All of the practices
and knowledge
of Chinese energetic
medicine came
from the study of martial arts.
Kung fu is everything.
Kung fu is where the people had
a place, a temple, that they
could spend their time trying
to develop information that
was beneficial to their own
people, their own students,
and to the population at large.
And people would
go to these places.
These were the
original hospitals.
And there are facilities
engaged in herbal treatments,
food treatments, exercises,
and, most particularly,
Chinese energetic medicine.
If you study martial arts,
specifically kung fu,
in the first six
years, everybody
knows from the TV and
the shows that you
get to see all these
physical moves.
But what happens after six
years of physical study?
You're generally initiated
into the energetic side of it,
the zero side of kung fu.
The zero side of kung fu
is energy, the ability
to move energy.
One of the things I've noticed
in Wing Chun, a martial art,
is that Wing Chun deals
with push and pull.
I really think this
is an accurate way
to look at the universe.
Were you pushed into existence?
Or were you pulled
into existence?
Your potentiality and
existence independent
of a physical reality
exists somewhere.
It exists in some dimensionality
that's probably not explained
as quantum space, sub-quantum
space, or dark energy or dark
space.
So there is a joke
in physics that
says, if you give a physics
professor a miracle--
the big bang-- he
will run with it.
And that's what we see.
They start with a
big bang and say out
of nothing came everything.
But at some level,
that's a miracle.
Oh, how about being born?
How do we explain that?
It's a miracle.
But there is also a
scientific event that occurs,
something that can be
observed, and something
that can be explored.
And one of them is, at
the moment of conception,
there is an explosion of light.
It is the event that
represents an opening
in the fabric of the
universe through which all
the information can come
that results in you.
So then the question becomes,
are you pushed into this life?
Are you pushed
into physical form?
Or are you pulled in it by
the needs of the universe?
Because we can't explain
why we ended up alive.
We can attribute
it to consequences.
it to, I did this.
You did that.
You are not incarnate
because your parents had sex.
You are incarnate because
their parents and their parents
and their parents
and their parents--
how far back can you go?
You have to eliminate causality
as a source of your existence.
It has to come from
an existential point.
It has to come from totally
outside of the known
because it's the only
thing large enough
that can answer that question.
When I say, have
no fear of death,
I can state that
because I've been there.
I have had people ask
me, what is death like?
You become undifferentiated.
There is no independent
existence of the universe.
It's like you are
it, and it is you.
You are the ocean.
You are an individual
drop of the ocean.
And then you become the ocean.
And then you become an
individual drop again.
One of the only memories I have
is that at a particular point,
I became the ocean,
became the universe
during a time of death.
To me, that lasted one
moment in my own existence.
But in regular time, number-one
reality, about 21 hours
had gone by from
when I had died.
And I recovered
because of the efforts
of the medical
profession and doctors.
But I was still involved in
the entire universe for that 21
hours.
It was like a pixilated
ball of energy.
But it only became a
pixilated ball of energy
as I was coming out of it, as
I became the observer of it.
And of course, at the
point of observation,
I immediately emerged
back into consciousness.
I came back alive.
So being alive is to
observe you're alive.
It is to observe separation.
It is the original meaning
of abandonment and separation
at birth.
But it comes from
the abandonment
of the entire universe to
be born into a human form.
When you are born,
you have no concept
of the extensive information
and opportunities
and potentialities of the entire
universe as they exist for you.
And in the same
way, when you die,
you have no ideal of
what language to use
or how to relate the
experiences to somebody
who has not done that.
And that's why I say
it is subjective.
All death is subjective.
It is independently associated
with you, with your existence,
with your memories, with
your reference sets,
with your preference sets.
And all of this becomes
something to explore.
And you can only do
it by being alive.
Have no fear of death.
It is truly the highest state of
illumination and enlightenment.
And in my opinion, you
should not seek out death.
But illumination
and enlightenment
are certainly within bounds.
Thank you for joining me today.
I hope I was able to help you
understand the meaning of death
as a means for
transformation and that this
is part of the energetic process
that leads to transcendence.
You are part of the energetic
processes of the universe.
And the more you
understand that,
the closer you are
to understanding
your reality and all reality.
Stay tuned for an
all-new episode.
[THEME MUSIC]